# Sales-Forecasting-Model

Lankatiles PLC is Sri Lanka's premier tiles provider. Lankatiles has two main product fields; wall tiles and floor tiles. Each of them has more than 15 sub categories. Their productions are sold in near 400 salespoints. They were interested in getting ideas about future sales. I developed a machine learning model to forecast future sales.

Lankatiles database includes the all the sales details upto date from 2012. The data was extracted from it. In each single sale, I used the properties such as date, group category of item, item size, salespoint, sales channel, invoice discount and quantity sold. The single sales were converted into weekly transctions. I used year, month, week, percentages of 8 sales channels, weekly average invoice discount, number of weeks to Sinhala and Tamil New Year, number of weeks to Christmas and salespoint as the features to train the sales forecasting model. Using the model, sales quantities of tile categories for 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, month or quarter of near future at any salespoint can be predicted.

For wall tiles, 3 machine learning models were developed for predicting future sales quantities by training sales data of past 6 years, 4 years and 2 years. Same task was performed for floor tiles too. I tried using Random forest classifier, Gradient boosting and Fully connected neural networks.

Gradient boosting had the best sales predicting model for 2 years trained data of wall tiles, and Random forest classifier had the best sales predicting model for all other five. Finally, Random forest(number of estimators=240) model for 6 years trained data was used as the forecasting model for wall tiles, and Random forest(number of estimators=75) model for 2 years trained data was used as the forecasting model for floor tiles.
